- [Instructor] The Migration Toolkit
for Application Binaries provided by IBM
is another useful tool
for identifying potential migration issues
in an application.
The tool is meant to help with migrations
between application servers.
However, it also provides a helpful report
that details potential Java migration problems.
We can use this report to identify any issues
migrating from Java 8 to Java 11 within our application.
To get started doing that,
we're going to click on the Download button
on the website for the toolkit.
This is going to prompt us
to accept the terms of the license.
So I'll click on Accept and Download.
And then I have my browser set up
to automatically place the downloaded file on my desktop.
We will receive a warning
because it's a jar file from the browser
that prompts us regarding a security alert.
Now, you can go ahead and keep the file.
And from here, I'm just going to navigate
to a PowerShell terminal.
And if we take a look at my desktop,
you'll notice the binary app scanner installer.jar file.
Now, this is just the installer for the binary app scanner.
In order to kick off the installation,
we're going to use Java,
and we'll specify the -jar command,
and then we're going to point to the jar file
we'd like to run.
In this case, that's the binary app scanner installer.jar.
And once we kick that off,
it's going to begin the installation process
and ask us if we would like
to read the terms of the license.
Now, I'm just going to hit X and hit Enter
to skip reading the license.
I'll have to do that one more time.
It's then going to ask us if we accept the license.
I'll specify one to indicate I accept and then hit Enter.
The next thing it's going to do is prompt us
for where we would like to install the toolkit.
Now, because we launched the command from the desktop,
it's going to recommend that directory,
and I'm okay with that, so I'll just hit enter.
You'll notice that the toolkit
is then installed within WAMT directory.
So if we clear the terminal
and navigate into the WAMT directory,
here we're going to find the binary app scanner.jar file.
And this is the actual scanner
that we'll use to scan our application binaries
to determine migration issues between Java 8 and Java 11.
Now, to do that, we're once again,
going to use the Java-jar command.
We'll point to the binary app scanner
because it's what we'd like to execute.
And now we need to tell the app scanner
what jar file we would like it to scan.
So I'm within the WAMT directory on my desktop.
What I'm going to do is traverse back a directory
into the exercise files directory.
And then here, we can navigate into the files
for this lesson,
which will be in the O4_04_begin directory.
And now we need to access the binaries for our application.
So Maven places the binaries within the target directory,
and then the name of our jar file
was hplus-spor-api.jar.
Okay. So we told it what to scan.
Now we have to tell it a few more things.
The next thing we'll need to do
is specify the --analyzeJavaSE flag.
And this indicates that we would like the binary scanner
to scan for Java standard edition.
And now we need to tell it the version we're coming from
and the version we're going to.
So to do that,
we first use the source Java flag
to indicate the version we're starting at,
and that's going to be Oracle 8.
And then we need to specify
what version we would like to end up on.
To do that, we use the --targetJava flag,
and we're going to then set that to Java 11.
Okay. So we're set up to perform the scan.
I'll hit enter to kick it off,
and you'll see that the scan begins.
Once the scan is completed,
the browser will open with a report
where we can see the findings from the scanner.
You'll notice that the findings
are placed into three severity categories,
severe, warning, and information.
If you scroll down the report,
you can find the items that the scanner has identified.
So if we take a look at the first item,
do not use APIs from the sun packages.
This is access to the JDK internals
that we've already talked about
and we have identified with jdeps.
So you'll notice the report does point to the exact class
and the lines where these issues were found.
Now, since we've already found these with jdeps,
we'll continue on within the report.
And you'll notice within the warning section,
it indicates that Java.XML.bind and Java.activation modules
were removed from JDK 11.
So we talked about the modules being removed from Java.
We didn't specifically identify any issues
within our application using jdeps.
But here, using the migration toolkit,
we were able to identify areas within our application
where we were using JAXB
as well as the Java.activation modules.
So we're going to have to take a look at how we remedy that
in order to migrate our application to Java 11.
And then the final information item
that was identified by the scanner
was to run jdeps on our code, and we've already done that.
Using the migration toolkit is a quick way
to better understand the issues
that must be addressed prior to migrating to Java 11.
Using the tool, you can get valuable insights
into the code base
that allow you to prepare transition strategies.
This can be incredibly
valuable if you're not the original developer
of the application
or if you're not that familiar with the source code.